About TreeNET v1.0 - By Jean-François Grailet, April 30, 2015
=============================================================

N.B. (December 1st, 2015): TreeNET v1.0 is now deprecated. For a more recent 
release, you might want to look at the root of this repository. However, more 
recent releases might not come with data sets for the same ASes as those who 
were probed with TreeNET v1.0.

About TreeNET and TreeNET Reader
================================

TreeNET v1.0 actually comes in two pieces of software: TreeNET "Full", which 
provides TreeNET as a measurement/topology discovery tool, and TreeNET 
"Reader" which is meant to parse files outputted by TreeNET "Full" to analyze 
them and merge them.

In particular, TreeNET Reader comes with the traceroute/alias resolution tools 
present in TreeNET "Full" such that it can re-compute the routes and alias 
resolution hints for the subnets it parsed (usually from several files).

Indeed, a network tree is relevant only if it uses traceroutes computed from a 
same vantage point. As TreeNET needs to be deployed on several machines to 
infer subnets within a large network, TreeNET Reader allows one to re-compute 
all traceroutes and alias resolution hints from the same vantage point for all 
measurements (when provided together).

TreeNET Reader is also able to convert a fully built/annotated network tree 
into a bipartite graph for further analysis (with other softwares).

Content of this folder
======================

As the names suggest, Full/ contains all sources for TreeNET as a measurement 
tool (simply named "TreeNET") while /Reader provides all the sources of 
TreeNET Reader. Both folders come with their own README files, detailing 
compilation and usage.

The third and last sub-folder, Measurements/, contains measurements of four 
autonomous systems (or ASes) which were computed between March 23th and April 
24th 2015. You can learn more about them by reading the README file at the 
root of this folder.

Contact
=======

TreeNET and TreeNET Reader (v1.0) were both written by Jean-François Grailet 
during the academic year 2014-2015 in the context of a master thesis at the 
University of Liège (Belgium), using the sources of ExploreNET v2.1 as a basis.
Jean-François is currently a Ph. D. student at the same university, in the 
Research Unit in Networking (RUN).

E-mail address: Jean-Francois.Grailet@ulg.ac.be

ExploreNET v2.1 has been elaborated and written by Dr. Mehmet Engin Tozal, 
currently assistant teacher at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (USA).
The sources of this program can be downloaded at the following address:

http://nsrg.louisiana.edu/project/ntmaps/output/explorenet.html
