About TreeNET - By Jean-François Grailet (last update: February 24, 2016)
=========================================================================

Overview
========

TreeNET is a subnet-based topology discovery software which is built upon the 
subnet inference software ExploreNET. Using the inference mechanics provided 
by ExploreNET and providing some refinement over the measured subnets, TreeNET 
tries to infer a whole router - subnet topology by building a tree-like 
structure which relies on the measured subnets and on traceroute to them 
(using Paris traceroute).

The tree-like structure (called "network tree") aims at highlighting 
"Neighborhoods", i.e. network locations bordered by subnets which can reach 
each other with a TTL of at most 1. These locations typically consist of a 
single router or a mesh of several routers, possibly implemented with Layer-2 
equipment. The knowledge of the subnets surrounding Neighborhoods can be used 
to perform alias resolution and discover one or several routers to replace the 
Neighborhoods and obtain a (near-)complete topology. Indeed, each subnet, if 
sound, should contain an interface with a particular minimum TTL value which 
necessarily belongs to the router giving access to that subnet. Listing such 
interfaces from all subnets bordering a same Neighborhood is actually the 
first step of alias resolution in TreeNET.

A long-term goal of TreeNET is to be able to infer not only routers (Layer-3 
equipment), but also Layer-2 devices, using its knowledge of routers and 
subnets bordering a location where Layer-2 devices might exist.

Current versions
================

All current versions are exclusively available for Linux.

* TreeNET v1.0: developped during academic year 2014-2015 for a master thesis, 
  this version implements all major algorithmic steps described in the 
  overview. This version also comes with measurements which were conducted 
  with it on PlanetLab and a companion piece of software (TreeNET Reader) 
  which provides tools for analysis/merging of the collected data sets.

* TreeNET v2.1: elaborated in September 2015 and fully implemented as soon as 
  November 2015 (as v2.0), this second version adds a new algorithmic step 
  called "network pre-scanning" which aims at speeding up the overall 
  execution. The alias resolution part has also been thoroughly improved, 
  while other steps have been revisited for various but less consequent 
  improvements. 
  
  In January 2016, TreeNET v2.0 was upgraded to v2.1 with the introduction of 
  new refinement mechanics which aims at speeding up the execution time and 
  reducing the probing cost.
  
  TreeNET v2.1 is accompanied by two additional pieces of software, ARTest and 
  ExploreNET++. Both of them were implemented to assess precise steps of 
  TreeNET: ARTest was made to assess the alias resolution step, while 
  ExploreNET++ was made to provide an input/output scheme for ExploreNET close 
  to that of TreeNET in order to assess the refinement techniques introduced 
  in TreeNET. Both of these variations were released at the same time as the 
  initial v2.0.

  TreeNET Reader v2.0 has been released in late January 2016, taking account 
  of all improvements brought to TreeNET v2.0+ and providing a few additionnal 
  options and an improved bipartite conversion. It was upgraded to v2.1 in 
  February 2016 to add a "merging mode" which merges datasets collected from 
  different vantage points (or VPs) into a single dataset where routes to the 
  different subnets are adapted to be able to build a single, coherent network 
  tree, using new algorithms which require no additional probing.

Content of this folder
======================

As the names suggest, v1/ contains all files related to TreeNET v1.0, while 
v2/ provides all sources for TreeNET v2.1 along datasets which were collected 
with it.

Work in progress
================

Current and future work includes:

* Measurements planning and development and assessment of techniques which 
  improve overall performance and/or allow measurements of large-scale ASes.

* Refined alias resolution, with an improved probe scheduling and new 
  techniques and heuristics to improve overall accuracy.

* Post-processing of the network tree and/or heuristics to mitigate the 
  loss of accuracy brought by traditionnal networking issues which damage 
  traceroute measurements, such as route stretching, cycles and loops.

It is also worth noting that the way measurements are provided might change 
in the future.

Contact
=======

TreeNET and all related programs (TreeNET Reader, ARTest, ExploreNET++) were 
written by Jean-François Grailet, currently Ph. D. student at the University 
of Liège (Belgium) in the Research Unit in Networking (RUN), using the sources 
of ExploreNET v2.1 as a basis.

E-mail address: Jean-Francois.Grailet@ulg.ac.be

ExploreNET v2.1 has been elaborated and written by Dr. Mehmet Engin Tozal, 
currently assistant teacher at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (USA).
The sources of this program can be downloaded at the following address:

http://nsrg.louisiana.edu/project/ntmaps/output/explorenet.html
